# Population genetics simulations
Files in the subfolders of this folder helps us perform the Wright-Fisher discrete population genetics simulations over bacteria with N TCSs. This scheme uses the fitness values estimated in the `fitness_estimation` folder. The methodology is explained in the *Methods* section, while the workflow to achieve using our codes is the following:
 - First, we use the `non_path_baseline_fitness.m` file, which uses the `data_set_baseline.m` to estimate the baseline fitness for a given value of _N_. Fitness of phenotypes is compared against this baseline value to select between propogation and elimination. This generates files `*baseline_fitness_N*.mat` which are used as mentioned.
 - For a given _N_, if one wishes to perform a realization with 100 counts of all possible phenotypes i.e., the mixed initial condition, they must select the `*distributed_evolution.m` file. Else, if one wishes to perform a realization with 10,000 counts of a single phenotype i.e., the homogeneous initial condition, they must select the `*uniform_evolution.m` file.
 - Both the files require only three inputs: number of TCSs `N`, log-order of mutation rate `mut`, and the cut-off percentage of dominant phenotype in the population to stop the simulation `majority_percent`. The file `generation_calculator.m` performs the algorithm detailed in figure 3a of the main manuscript, and the file is self-explanatory with enough comments to guide the reader.
 - Finally, the realization is saved as a file, where the variables `avg_fitness_gen` gives the average fitness of the population in each generation, and the variable `numb` gives the number of bacteria of each possible phenotype present in every generation.
